Fixes in dev docs (#3333)
apache/logging-log4j2: src/site/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/faq.adoc

= F.A.Q.

This page compiles a list of frequently asked questions.

> If you don't find the answer to your question, please consult the link:{logging-services-url}/support.html[the support page].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't find the answer to your question, please consult link:{logging-services-url}/support.html[the support page].
```

"The" is repeated otherwise.

<Configuration xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
               xmlns="https://logging.apache.org/xml/ns"
               xsi:schemaLocation="
 https://logging.apache.org/xml/ns

>  https://logging.apache.org/xml/ns/log4j-config-2.xsd">

Reviewer 2: I prefer the previous indentation.

. Make sure you have xref:manual/installation.adoc[the right JAR files] on your classpath.

. Check the name of your configuration file.
Log4j looks for a configuration file named `log4j2.xml` on the classpath by default.
Note the `2` in the file name!
(See xref:manual/configuration.adoc[the Configuration page] for more details.)

. Increase the logging verbosity of the internal xref:manual/status-logger.adoc[]: +
`-Dlog4j2.statusLoggerLevel=TRACE`

. Enable all internal debug logging: `-Dlog4j2.debug`.

> This turns-off level-based xref:manual/status-logger.adoc[] filtering and effectively allows all status logs.

Reviewer 3: We technically always use `enable` and `disable` to denote activation – I think we should stick to that.

Author: Disabled people will thank us for not using this terminology. We can keep it, but I think it is a negative wording. Please confirm you want to do that.

Reviewer 2: > Disabled people will thank us for not using this terminology.

You mean "people with disabilities" :wink:? I don't think anybody thinks about physical disabilities, when reading a technical documentation, but if we are going to ban the `disable` verb, we should do it in the entire documentation.

Reviewer 3: > Please confirm you want to do that.

@grobmeier, I confirm that *I prefer* replacing `turns-off` with `disables`. Though I leave it to your discretion.

Reviewer: How about "This allows for all kinds of status log messages to be written" or something like that.

Log4j API and SLF4J have a lot in common.
They both share the objective of cleanly separating the logging API from the implementation.
Log4j API can help make your application more performant while offering more functionality and flexibility.

There may be a concern that the Log4j API will tightly couple your application to Log4j.
This is not the case: applications coded to Log4j API always have the option to use any SLF4J-compliant logging implementation with the `log4j-to-slf4j` bridge.
See xref:manual/installation.adoc[the Installation page] for details.

There are several advantages to using Log4j API:

* SLF4J forces your application to log ``String``s.
Log4j API supports logging any `CharSequence` if you want to log text, but also supports logging any `Object` as is.

> The logging _implementation_ is responsible for handling this object, and we consider it a design mistake to limit applications to logging ``Strings``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The logging _implementation_ is responsible for handling this object, and we consider it a design mistake to limit applications to logging ``String``s.
```

I prefer not to modify the name of classes.

However, for many domain objects, it may not be trivial to implement this without allocating temporary objects.

An alternative is implementing the `org.apache.logging.log4j.util.StringBuilderFormattable` interface.
If an object that implements this interface is logged, its `formatTo(StringBuilder)` method is called instead of `toString().`

[#logger-wrapper]
== How do I create a custom logger wrapper that shows the correct class, method, and line number?

Log4j remembers the logger's fully qualified class name (FQCN) and uses this to walk the stack trace for every log event when configured to print location.

[WARNING]
====
Be aware that logging with location is slow and may impact the performance of your application.
====

The problem with custom logger wrappers is that they have a different FQCN than the actual logger, so Log4j can't find where your custom logger was called.

The solution is to provide the correct FQCN.
The easiest way is to let Log4j generate the logger wrapper for you.
Log4j comes with a Logger wrapper generator tool.
This tool was originally meant to support custom log levels and was moved to the

> {logging-services-url}/log4j/transform/latest/index.html[Log4j Transform subproject].

Reviewer 2: The tool was removed from Log4j Transform too, should we remove this paragraph?

Reviewer 3: @ppkarwasz, good catch, yes, we should.
